If you have suffered sexual assault or harassment, there are four legal actions
you can take: Report the matter to law enforcement, File a Magistrate's
Complaint (Private Prosecution), Apply for a protection order/personal
protection order, Commence civil proceedings for compensation.

Police reports can be filed by visiting the nearest police centre or police post
to file a report. Police Centres operate 24 hours daily, while police posts
operate 12pm to 10pm daily.

An online police report can be filed, if there is no
need for immediate help by the police, at this link: https://eservices.police
.gov.sg/content/policehubhome/homepage/police-report.html.

If you are in an emergency, please call 999 or message 71999 if it is not safe
to talk. If you are messaging the police, include information on the nature of
your emergency and your location.

After filing a report, the police's investigation process will begin. First, an
officer trained in victim care will help with filing the report, and conduct
interviews in private rooms. An Investigation Officer trained in handling sexual
assault cases will record a statement from you. You can request to speak to an
Investigation Officer of the same gender. Then, you can also request for the
assistance of a Victim Care Officer, who can help to provide emotional support.

If forensic medical examination is needed, they can be taken at the OneSAFE
Centre, KK Hospital, National University Hospital or Singapore General Hospital
. The forensic medical examination will involve a full physical examination,
including around the genital area. The examination may involve collection of
samples of semen and hair to conduct DNA testing, and may also involve the
collection of clothing and other physical evidence that may have transferred
onto you. You should bring some spare clothes to the forensic examination.

Afterwards, the Investigation Officer will periodically update you about the
investigation's process. You may be interviewed more than once as part of the
police's investigation process.

Besides interviews with the police, you may be requested to attend interviews
conducted by prosecutors from the Attorney General's Chambers (AGC). The
purpose of the AGC's interview is to decide whether the AGC will proceed with prosecution. As far as
possible, the AGC will accommodate your requests such as requesting to have a
prosecutor of the same gender.

There are four outcomes that can occur after a police report has been made,
and investigations have been completed: 1) No further action is taken; 2) A
stern warning is issued to the perpetrator; 3) Conditional warning is given to
the perpetrator; 4) The perpetrator is charged and prosecuted by the Attorney
General's Chambers.The AGC is the one who decides on these outcomes of a police
report. First, no further action may be taken as the AGC finds that there is no
evidence or insufficient evidence to show that an offence was committed. Hence,
investigations or proceedings against the perpetrator will be discontinued. Second, a stern warning may be issued where
the AGC finds that there is sufficient evidence to prove that an offence
was committed, but the AGC declines to prosecute. However, the stern warning
issued will be taken into account if the AGC prosecutes the perpetrator for a
new crime. Third, a conditional warning may be given where there is sufficient
evidence to prove that an offence has been committed. A conditional warning
stipulates conditions such as to not reoffend within a certain time frame,
attend regular psychiatric treatment etc. If the conditional warning is
breached, the perpetrator will be charged for the warned offence, in addition
to any new offences that have occurred since the warning was given. Fourth, the
perpetrator may be charged with an offence, where the AGC finds that there is
sufficient evidence to prove an offence and that it is in the public interest to
prosecute the perpetrator. The case will then proceed before a court to
determine if the perpetrator is guilty, and the appropriate sentence they should
 receive.








